.issues/epics/mcp/protocol-version-header.md, before:

---
id: protocol-version-header
title: "MCP Protocol Version Header Support"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: medium
labels:
  - mcp
  - protocol
deps: []
---

# MCP Protocol Version Header Support

## Summary

Implement proper handling of the `MCP-Protocol-Version` HTTP header for protocol version negotiation and validation.

## Requirement (from MCP Specification)

> If using HTTP, the client **MUST** include the `MCP-Protocol-Version: <protocol-version>` HTTP header on all subsequent requests to the MCP server, allowing the MCP server to respond based on the MCP protocol version.
>
> For example: `MCP-Protocol-Version: 2025-11-25`
>
> The protocol version sent by the client **SHOULD** be the one negotiated during initialization.
>
> For backwards compatibility, if the server does _not_ receive an `MCP-Protocol-Version` header, and has no other way to identify the version, the server **SHOULD** assume protocol version `2025-03-26`.
>
> If the server receives a request with an invalid or unsupported `MCP-Protocol-Version`, it **MUST** respond with `400 Bad Request`.

## Current State

The current CORS configuration allows the `mcp-protocol-version` header:
```go
AllowedHeaders: []string{"content-type", "mcp-protocol-version"},
```

But the header is not validated or used for versioned behavior.

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Parse `MCP-Protocol-Version` header from incoming requests
- [ ] Validate version format (YYYY-MM-DD)
- [ ] Check version against supported versions list
- [ ] Return HTTP 400 for invalid/unsupported versions
- [ ] Default to `2025-03-26` when header is missing (backward compatibility)
- [ ] Store negotiated version in session for consistency
- [ ] Implement version-specific behavior paths if needed
- [ ] Document supported protocol versions
- [ ] Add version to responses where appropriate

## Supported Versions

Based on the MCP changelog:
- `2025-11-25` (current)
- `2025-06-18`
- `2025-03-26` (default fallback)
- `2024-11-05` (HTTP+SSE transport)

## Example Validation

```go
var supportedVersions = map[string]bool{
    "2025-11-25": true,
    "2025-06-18": true,
    "2025-03-26": true,
}

func validateProtocolVersion(version string) error {
    if version == "" {
        return nil // Will use default
    }
    if !supportedVersions[version] {
        return fmt.Errorf("unsupported protocol version: %s", version)
    }
    return nil
}
```

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Protocol version header is parsed from all requests
2. Invalid versions return HTTP 400
3. Missing header defaults to 2025-03-26
4. Supported versions are documented
5. Version-specific behavior can be implemented if needed
6. Tests cover version validation

## References

- [MCP Transports - Protocol Version Header](/.docs/mcp/basic/transports.mdx)
- [MCP Lifecycle - Version Negotiation](/.docs/mcp/basic/lifecycle.mdx)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis

Commit message:

docs(issues): update MCP epic tickets with implementation status
Cross-checked all MCP tickets against current implementation and
normative documents:

Status updates:
- client-id-metadata-documents: completed (implemented in client_id_metadata.go)
- client-id-metadata-trust-policy: completed (DomainMatcher)
- www-authenticate-header: in_progress (resource_metadata done, scope missing)

Split token-revocation into two tickets:
- access-token-revocation (RFC 7009 SHOULD, low priority)
- refresh-token-revocation (RFC 7009 MUST, depends on refresh tokens)

New tickets:
- remove-placeholder-scopes: remove unused ["openid", "offline"] from metadata

Updated scope-challenge-handling with comprehensive guide explaining:
- Responsibility chain (upstream MCP server translates provider errors)
- Pomerium's operating modes (transparent proxy vs upstream OAuth handler)
- Complete flow diagram with all actors

Added current state details and log entries to all tickets.

.issues/epics/mcp/protocol-version-header.md, after:

---
id: protocol-version-header
title: "MCP Protocol Version Header Support"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: medium
labels:
  - mcp
  - protocol
deps: []
---

# MCP Protocol Version Header Support

## Summary

Implement proper handling of the `MCP-Protocol-Version` HTTP header for protocol version negotiation and validation.

## Requirement (from MCP Specification)

> If using HTTP, the client **MUST** include the `MCP-Protocol-Version: <protocol-version>` HTTP header on all subsequent requests to the MCP server, allowing the MCP server to respond based on the MCP protocol version.
>
> For example: `MCP-Protocol-Version: 2025-11-25`
>
> The protocol version sent by the client **SHOULD** be the one negotiated during initialization.
>
> For backwards compatibility, if the server does _not_ receive an `MCP-Protocol-Version` header, and has no other way to identify the version, the server **SHOULD** assume protocol version `2025-03-26`.
>
> If the server receives a request with an invalid or unsupported `MCP-Protocol-Version`, it **MUST** respond with `400 Bad Request`.

## Current State

**NOT IMPLEMENTED.** The header is allowed in CORS but not validated or used.

The CORS configuration allows the header:
- `internal/mcp/handler.go:111`: `AllowedHeaders: []string{"content-type", "mcp-protocol-version"}`
- `internal/mcp/handler_metadata.go:192`: `AllowedHeaders: []string{"mcp-protocol-version"}`

**What's missing:**
- No middleware to parse `MCP-Protocol-Version` header from requests
- No validation of version format (YYYY-MM-DD)
- No check against supported versions list
- No default fallback to `2025-03-26` for missing headers
- No version-specific behavior paths
- No 400 Bad Request response for invalid versions

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Parse `MCP-Protocol-Version` header from incoming requests
- [ ] Validate version format (YYYY-MM-DD)
- [ ] Check version against supported versions list
- [ ] Return HTTP 400 for invalid/unsupported versions
- [ ] Default to `2025-03-26` when header is missing (backward compatibility)
- [ ] Store negotiated version in session for consistency
- [ ] Implement version-specific behavior paths if needed
- [ ] Document supported protocol versions
- [ ] Add version to responses where appropriate

## Supported Versions

Based on the MCP changelog:
- `2025-11-25` (current)
- `2025-06-18`
- `2025-03-26` (default fallback)
- `2024-11-05` (HTTP+SSE transport)

## Example Validation

```go
var supportedVersions = map[string]bool{
    "2025-11-25": true,
    "2025-06-18": true,
    "2025-03-26": true,
}

func validateProtocolVersion(version string) error {
    if version == "" {
        return nil // Will use default
    }
    if !supportedVersions[version] {
        return fmt.Errorf("unsupported protocol version: %s", version)
    }
    return nil
}
```

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Protocol version header is parsed from all requests
2. Invalid versions return HTTP 400
3. Missing header defaults to 2025-03-26
4. Supported versions are documented
5. Version-specific behavior can be implemented if needed
6. Tests cover version validation

## References

- [MCP Transports - Protocol Version Header](/.docs/mcp/basic/transports.mdx)
- [MCP Lifecycle - Version Negotiation](/.docs/mcp/basic/lifecycle.mdx)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis
- 2026-01-13: Verified header is allowed in CORS but not validated or used
