.issues/epics/mcp/resource-indicator-support.md, before:

---
id: resource-indicator-support
title: "Implement RFC 8707 Resource Indicators"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: high
labels:
  - mcp
  - oauth2
  - rfc8707
deps: []
---

# Implement RFC 8707 Resource Indicators

## Summary

Implement Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0 as defined in RFC 8707 to explicitly specify the target MCP server for which tokens are being requested.

## Requirement (from MCP Specification)

> MCP clients **MUST** implement Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0 as defined in [RFC 8707](/.docs/RFC/rfc8707.txt) to explicitly specify the target resource for which the token is being requested. The `resource` parameter:
>
> 1. **MUST** be included in both authorization requests and token requests.
> 2. **MUST** identify the MCP server that the client intends to use the token with.
> 3. **MUST** use the canonical URI of the MCP server as defined in RFC 8707 Section 2.

## Current State

The current implementation does not process or validate the `resource` parameter in authorization or token requests.

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Parse `resource` parameter from authorization requests
- [ ] Parse `resource` parameter from token requests
- [ ] Validate that `resource` matches the canonical URI format (RFC 8707 Section 2)
- [ ] Store resource indicator with authorization request for later validation
- [ ] Bind issued access tokens to the specified resource (audience claim)
- [ ] Validate that resource indicator in token request matches authorization request
- [ ] Return appropriate error (`invalid_target`) for invalid resource indicators
- [ ] Update Protected Resource Metadata to include the resource identifier

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Authorization requests with `resource` parameter are accepted and validated
2. Token requests with `resource` parameter are validated against the stored authorization request
3. Access tokens include audience binding to the resource
4. Clients without `resource` parameter receive appropriate guidance
5. Invalid resource indicators return proper OAuth errors

## References

- [RFC 8707 - Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0](/.docs/RFC/rfc8707.txt)
- [MCP Authorization - Resource Parameter Implementation](/.docs/mcp/basic/authorization.mdx)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis

Commit message:

docs(issues): update MCP epic tickets with implementation status
Cross-checked all MCP tickets against current implementation and
normative documents:

Status updates:
- client-id-metadata-documents: completed (implemented in client_id_metadata.go)
- client-id-metadata-trust-policy: completed (DomainMatcher)
- www-authenticate-header: in_progress (resource_metadata done, scope missing)

Split token-revocation into two tickets:
- access-token-revocation (RFC 7009 SHOULD, low priority)
- refresh-token-revocation (RFC 7009 MUST, depends on refresh tokens)

New tickets:
- remove-placeholder-scopes: remove unused ["openid", "offline"] from metadata

Updated scope-challenge-handling with comprehensive guide explaining:
- Responsibility chain (upstream MCP server translates provider errors)
- Pomerium's operating modes (transparent proxy vs upstream OAuth handler)
- Complete flow diagram with all actors

Added current state details and log entries to all tickets.

.issues/epics/mcp/resource-indicator-support.md, after:

---
id: resource-indicator-support
title: "Implement RFC 8707 Resource Indicators"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: high
labels:
  - mcp
  - oauth2
  - rfc8707
deps: []
---

# Implement RFC 8707 Resource Indicators

## Summary

Implement Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0 as defined in RFC 8707 to explicitly specify the target MCP server for which tokens are being requested.

## Requirement (from MCP Specification)

> MCP clients **MUST** implement Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0 as defined in [RFC 8707](/.docs/RFC/rfc8707.txt) to explicitly specify the target resource for which the token is being requested. The `resource` parameter:
>
> 1. **MUST** be included in both authorization requests and token requests.
> 2. **MUST** identify the MCP server that the client intends to use the token with.
> 3. **MUST** use the canonical URI of the MCP server as defined in RFC 8707 Section 2.

## Current State

**NOT IMPLEMENTED.** The current implementation does not process or validate the `resource` parameter in authorization or token requests.

Relevant code locations:
- `internal/mcp/handler_authorization.go` - Authorization endpoint (no `resource` parameter handling)
- `internal/mcp/handler_token.go` - Token endpoint (no `resource` parameter handling)

Per the MCP specification, the `resource` parameter is REQUIRED in both authorization and token requests, and access tokens MUST be bound to the specified resource audience.

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Parse `resource` parameter from authorization requests
- [ ] Parse `resource` parameter from token requests
- [ ] Validate that `resource` matches the canonical URI format (RFC 8707 Section 2)
- [ ] Store resource indicator with authorization request for later validation
- [ ] Bind issued access tokens to the specified resource (audience claim)
- [ ] Validate that resource indicator in token request matches authorization request
- [ ] Return appropriate error (`invalid_target`) for invalid resource indicators
- [ ] Update Protected Resource Metadata to include the resource identifier

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Authorization requests with `resource` parameter are accepted and validated
2. Token requests with `resource` parameter are validated against the stored authorization request
3. Access tokens include audience binding to the resource
4. Clients without `resource` parameter receive appropriate guidance
5. Invalid resource indicators return proper OAuth errors

## References

- [RFC 8707 - Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0](/.docs/RFC/rfc8707.txt)
- [MCP Authorization - Resource Parameter Implementation](/.docs/mcp/basic/authorization.mdx)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis
- 2026-01-13: Verified not implemented - no `resource` parameter handling in authorization or token handlers
