.issues/epics/mcp/token-introspection.md, before:

---
id: token-introspection
title: "Implement Token Introspection Endpoint (RFC 7662)"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: medium
labels:
  - mcp
  - oauth2
  - rfc7662
deps: []
---

# Implement Token Introspection Endpoint (RFC 7662)

## Summary

Implement OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection endpoint as defined in RFC 7662 to allow resource servers to query the authorization server about access token state.

## Requirement

The authorization server metadata advertises `introspection_endpoint` as an optional field. While not strictly required by MCP, token introspection provides valuable functionality for:
- Validating opaque access tokens
- Checking token revocation status
- Obtaining token metadata (scope, expiry, subject)

## Current State

- `handler_metadata.go` has `IntrospectionEndpoint` field but it's not populated
- No introspection endpoint handler is implemented
- Access tokens are currently self-validating (JWT format)

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Create `/introspect` endpoint handler
- [ ] Implement token parsing and validation
- [ ] Return active/inactive status
- [ ] Include token metadata in response (scope, exp, sub, iat, etc.)
- [ ] Implement client authentication for introspection requests
- [ ] Add rate limiting to prevent token enumeration
- [ ] Update authorization server metadata with endpoint
- [ ] Handle both access tokens and refresh tokens
- [ ] Add proper error responses for invalid requests

## Introspection Response

```json
{
  "active": true,
  "scope": "openid offline",
  "client_id": "s6BhdRkqt3",
  "username": "jdoe",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "exp": 1419356238,
  "iat": 1419350238,
  "sub": "Z5O3upPC88QrAjx00dis",
  "aud": "https://mcp.example.com",
  "iss": "https://pomerium.example.com"
}
```

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Introspection endpoint accepts POST requests with token parameter
2. Valid tokens return `active: true` with metadata
3. Invalid/expired tokens return `active: false`
4. Client authentication is enforced
5. Rate limiting prevents enumeration attacks
6. Authorization server metadata includes endpoint

## References

- [RFC 7662 - OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection](/.docs/RFC/rfc7662.txt)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis

Commit message:

docs(issues): update MCP epic tickets with implementation status
Cross-checked all MCP tickets against current implementation and
normative documents:

Status updates:
- client-id-metadata-documents: completed (implemented in client_id_metadata.go)
- client-id-metadata-trust-policy: completed (DomainMatcher)
- www-authenticate-header: in_progress (resource_metadata done, scope missing)

Split token-revocation into two tickets:
- access-token-revocation (RFC 7009 SHOULD, low priority)
- refresh-token-revocation (RFC 7009 MUST, depends on refresh tokens)

New tickets:
- remove-placeholder-scopes: remove unused ["openid", "offline"] from metadata

Updated scope-challenge-handling with comprehensive guide explaining:
- Responsibility chain (upstream MCP server translates provider errors)
- Pomerium's operating modes (transparent proxy vs upstream OAuth handler)
- Complete flow diagram with all actors

Added current state details and log entries to all tickets.

.issues/epics/mcp/token-introspection.md, after:

---
id: token-introspection
title: "Implement Token Introspection Endpoint (RFC 7662)"
status: open
created: 2026-01-06
updated: 2026-01-06
priority: medium
labels:
  - mcp
  - oauth2
  - rfc7662
deps: []
---

# Implement Token Introspection Endpoint (RFC 7662)

## Summary

Implement OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection endpoint as defined in RFC 7662 to allow resource servers to query the authorization server about access token state.

## Requirement

The authorization server metadata advertises `introspection_endpoint` as an optional field. While not strictly required by MCP, token introspection provides valuable functionality for:
- Validating opaque access tokens
- Checking token revocation status
- Obtaining token metadata (scope, expiry, subject)

## Current State

**NOT IMPLEMENTED.** The introspection endpoint is defined in the metadata struct but not advertised or implemented.

- `internal/mcp/handler_metadata.go:72-79` - Defines `IntrospectionEndpoint` field in `AuthorizationServerMetadata` struct
- The field is NOT populated in `getAuthorizationServerMetadata()` (line 154-168)
- No `/introspect` endpoint is defined in `handler.go` constants
- No introspection handler is registered in the mux router
- Access tokens are currently encrypted session IDs (not JWTs)

## Implementation Tasks

- [ ] Create `/introspect` endpoint handler
- [ ] Implement token parsing and validation
- [ ] Return active/inactive status
- [ ] Include token metadata in response (scope, exp, sub, iat, etc.)
- [ ] Implement client authentication for introspection requests
- [ ] Add rate limiting to prevent token enumeration
- [ ] Update authorization server metadata with endpoint
- [ ] Handle both access tokens and refresh tokens
- [ ] Add proper error responses for invalid requests

## Introspection Response

```json
{
  "active": true,
  "scope": "openid offline",
  "client_id": "s6BhdRkqt3",
  "username": "jdoe",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "exp": 1419356238,
  "iat": 1419350238,
  "sub": "Z5O3upPC88QrAjx00dis",
  "aud": "https://mcp.example.com",
  "iss": "https://pomerium.example.com"
}
```

## Acceptance Criteria

1. Introspection endpoint accepts POST requests with token parameter
2. Valid tokens return `active: true` with metadata
3. Invalid/expired tokens return `active: false`
4. Client authentication is enforced
5. Rate limiting prevents enumeration attacks
6. Authorization server metadata includes endpoint

## References

- [RFC 7662 - OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection](/.docs/RFC/rfc7662.txt)

## Log

- 2026-01-06: Issue created from MCP spec gap analysis
- 2026-01-13: Verified not implemented - IntrospectionEndpoint field exists but is not populated or handled
